## Recommender system with product embeddings
In this notebook, I built a recommender system using product embeddings that I trained from sequences of products viewed by users on an e-commerce website.

Product recommendation has been an important machine learning application in e-commerce. One useful way to solve a recommendation problem is to use the embedding approach. Embeddings are low-dimensional learned representation of entities that puts similar entities close together in the embedding space. The idea of embeddings has been influential in natural language processing. Word embeddings are trained using some form of text input with the assumption that words occurring in similar contexts tend to have similar meanings. More recently, the embedding approach has been extended to use cases in e-commerce. Sequences of user actions on products are used to train product embeddings based on a similar assumption: products that are viewed/searched in similar 'contexts' tend to have similar characteristics ([by Airbnb](https://medium.com/airbnb-engineering/listing-embeddings-for-similar-listing-recommendations-and-real-time-personalization-in-search-601172f7603e) and [by Drop](https://drop.engineering/building-a-recommender-system-using-embeddings-de5a30e655aa)). 

I used an e-commerce dataset on Kaggle that includes records of customers' viewing of different products at different timestamps. The data was prepared to get sequences of products viewed within a same short session. A training set consisting of all pairs of products that are viewed in sequence was then built. Positive samples of product pairs and negative samples (pairs that were not actually viewed in sequence) were generated for an embedding neural network. The task of the neural network was to predict whether a given product pair was legitimate, i.e., whether the products were viewed in sequence. After training the neural network, its embedding layer was extracted and used for finding similar products.
